Learning a programming language is not just learning the **syntax/grammar** of the programming language. You must also have a solid understanding of the **built-in modules** and how to implement them. For a language like **Python**, this may lead you into various programming topics such as networking, databases, regular expressions, etc. 

After learning the syntax and built-in modules, you should also learn the most popular **3rd party modules/libraries** and **frameworks**. For **web development**, **Javascript** frameworks like** AngularJS, Node.js, and Ember.js** are some frameworks you should become familiar with to do anything truly useful with web techonologies. If you are using **Ruby** and you want to develop for the web with it, learn a framework like **Ruby on Rails**. If you are using Python for the web,  learn **Django**.

Once you have learned the hot 3rd party libraries and frameworks, you can dive into making something useful. There are also other smaller uses for some programming languages. Some programs have **plugin systems** that allow you to use a lananguage to extend the functionality of the program. If you are into **game development** and you know a little Python, you can write a plugin for **Blender3D** (a 3d modeling application) to speed up your workflow. If you know Ruby and are into **architecture**, you can use Ruby to make custom plugins for **Skethcup** (a 3D CAD-like modeling application). Such programs have very good **APIs**(Application Programming Interfaces) that make it easy to interact with it using your programming language. 

New programming languages pop up all of the time, but most of them have the same basic logic system. You have to know what a variable is, a function is, a class is etc. You have to know how to import modules and implement them. You should also learn the major modules. For instance, learning a lanauge like Python prepares you for 90% of the **GDscript** programming language, used to make video games for the **Godot game engine**. From there, all you need to do is learn the Godot API.

The most important skill to aquire other than learning syntax, modules, frameworks, and APIs is to know how to solve problems. 
At the end the day  you are making a product that solves a problem. You are making a tool. Don't get caught up in frameworks and APIs and forget that the thing you make should actually be useful. You can waste a lot of time learning large frameworks and not really have an idea of what you want to make with it. Or perhaps you are learning a particular framework to land that dream job! Either way, **have a purpose for learning what you learn.** 

